AI Foundations for Product Innovation Graduate Certificate








A 4-course online program in AI and Machine Learning designed for working professionals

Those who have knowledge of AI and machine learning have an advantage. Earn this Duke standalone, credit-bearing, non-degree offering in 15 months by completing:


A Python and data science math
 pre-program boot camp

Four (4) technical core
 courses in AI and machine learning


Learn online and 
pay tuition per course
, without the commitment of a traditional degree program.

Extensive programming experience is 
not
 required, but the following are recommended:


An undergraduate degree in science or engineering (or equivalent technical work experience);

A minimum of one (1) semester of programming (any language);

Two (2) semesters of calculus


Students who enroll and complete the certificate will have the option to subsequently apply for the online 
Duke AI Master of Engineering
 degree (details below).

Join our 
mailing list
 to receive updates!

How to Apply

Certificate courses are taught by the same 
faculty
 who teach the AI Master of Engineering degree program.


courses




 Semester

Course Titles



Summer (Pre-Program)


Python & Data Science Math Boot Camp




Fall 1


AIPI 510: Sourcing Data for Analytics




Spring 1


AIPI 520: Modeling Process & Algorithms




Summer 1


AIPI 540: Building Products Using Deep Learning




Fall 2

Departmental Technical Elective




Students who complete the certificate earn credits they can apply toward the online 
Duke AI Master of Engineering
 degree.


Certificate Program Details


Admissions Policies and Practices


This certificate program is open to all qualified applicants worldwide. Applications are accepted for the certificate program for the fall semester only, and participants are expected to be working full-time while completing the Certificate program.

An application for the AI Foundations for Product Innovation graduate certificate program requires the following:


A bachelor’s degree in engineering or science from an accredited institution (transcripts required, including an estimated GPA and a grade scale)

Statement of purpose

Résumé

Two recommendations

English Language Testing (TOEFL or IELTS): official results required—
international applicants only

Video introduction


This is a standalone certificate program and does not qualify international students for US visa sponsorship.

 

How to apply


Scholarships


For students joining the certificate program in the 2023-24 academic year, a limited number of merit-based scholarships are available.

All applicants will be automatically considered for the available scholarships based on their application materials.


Program Costs


The amounts shown below include costs for the entire program, assuming normal time to completion. There may be additional costs for living expenses. Note that this information is subject to change:




Tuition

$8,043 per 3-credit class, and a total of $32,172 for the certificate **



Transcript Fee

$120 **



Books

$316 (estimate)



TOTAL

$32,608




Notes

** Duke may change its tuition for each academic year. This estimate is based on the 2023-24 academic year tuition charges.






Applying the Certificate to the Master of Engineering


Students who enroll and successfully complete the certificate requirements will have the option to subsequently apply for the online Duke AI for Product Innovation Master of Engineering within four years, and use their certificate courses (12.0 course credits) toward the degree (30.0 course credits), as long as they earn a grade of B or better in each class.

Certificate holders who apply to the online Duke AI for Product Innovation Master of Engineering program will additionally be required to provide GRE scores (if required at time of application). GRE scores are 
optional
 for the 2023-24 admissions cycle.

Applicants who are accepted will then need to complete the remaining requirements for the degree: typically, four electives, two Master of Engineering management core courses, and the required on-campus residencies in Durham, NC.

This is not an offer of preferential admission, and there is no guarantee of admission. See our 
academic policy bulletin
 for the most current details.


Not Eligible for VA Benefits or Federal Student Aid


This standalone online certificate program is not yet eligible for VA benefits or federal student aid. Please check back for updates.


Important Note for International Applicants


Please Note: This standalone online certificate program 
does NOT
 qualify students for U.S. visa sponsorship.


Gainful Employment Disclosures*


Program Length


Typically 15 months (1 course per semester, including summer)


Student Loans


Information about average student debt, monthly debt expense and debt interest rate have been withheld since fewer than 10 students have completed this program


Job Placement Rates


We are not currently required to calculate a job placement rate for program completers

Program graduates are employed in the following fields:

Information Technology

Manufacturing

Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics

Transportation, Distribution, and Logistics





The program does not meet any licensing requirements

Additional Information: Date Created 3/15/2021


*
 
These disclosures are required by the U.S. Department of Education



Join Our Mailing list

Receive information about this Duke Engineering graduate certificate program and related online recruitment events:

Loading...